docs: introducing request/reply (#2071)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/getting-started/request_reply.md

> ---

Reviewer: FYI, you used an underscore in your file name `request_reply.md`, but **please update your file name to use a dash instead: `request-reply.md`** to follow our convention in AsyncAPI docs. ✌🏽

Author: 👍

> title: Request and reply pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Request/reply pattern
```

weight: 20
---

> A quite common messaging pattern is [request-reply](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/patterns/messaging/RequestReply.html), which describes a **requester**, which sends a request message and waits for a reply and a **replier** which receives the request and responds with a reply.

Reviewer: _"**which** describes a **requester**, **which** sends a request message ... **which** receives the request "_

Yikes! 😄 Let's rewrite line 6 into 2 separate sentences; having 3 `which`'s in a row as such presents a run-on sentence.

Author: Is this better?
```suggestion
A quite common messaging pattern is [request-reply](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/patterns/messaging/RequestReply.html). It describes a **requester**, which sends a request message and waits for a reply - and a **replier** which receives the request and responds with a reply.
```

> As of AsyncPAI v3, this pattern can be described natively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. AsyncPAI? 😂
2. We don't mention different spec versions; we must write in the PRESENT tense. _(i.e., only the present spec version is relevant and thus needs no mention)_ **With this in mind, please go through your document and remove all mentions of `AsyncAPI v3`.**

📢 **Remember:** In blog posts, totally appropriate/sometimes necessary to clarify which spec version you're talking about. In docs, you must write in present tense, only documenting how the latest/most current version works. _The sole exception to this rule is within the `Reference` content bucket where we document current/previous spec versions._

Author: Makes sense 👍 

Wups 😆

 
# Describing a requester

> We are gonna use a very simple ping and pong example where a requestor sends the ping and responder respond with pong. Take notice this is an application-level ping and pong and is not related to ping/pong in standards such as WebSocket.

Reviewer: > "We are **gonna** ..."

**Please go through your document to correct any slang words you accidentally included.** "Gonna" is not appropriate for docs; slang is appropriate for blog posts or personal projects/social media. 😄

Author: Changed anything that poped out, knowing what is slang is almost impossible for me tbh. Cause "gonna" is not slang to me it's just more casual than `going to`. 

Do point out if you find anything else 😄

> We are gonna use a very simple ping and pong example where a requestor sends the ping and responder respond with pong. Take notice this is an application-level ping and pong and is not related to ping/pong in standards such as WebSocket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are gonna use a very simple ping and pong example where a requester sends the ping and responder respond with pong. Take notice this is an application-level ping and pong and is not related to ping/pong in standards such as WebSocket.
```

Also I feel we don't really need to clarify anything about ping/pong so I would remove the following sentence:

> Take notice this is an application-level ping and pong and is not related to ping/pong in standards such as WebSocket.

Author: Changed 👍

> To describe a **requester** in AsyncAPI we make use of an operation that `send`s the ping and expects a `reply` over `pong`.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: I would clarify if you refer to message or channel (this case) when using the names `ping/pong`.

Author: Changed to `To describe a **requester** in AsyncAPI we make use of an operation that `send`s to the `ping` channel and expects a `reply` over `pong`.`

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:

>   title: Ping/pong example with the requester

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: Ping/pong example with requester
```

I always try to use phrases in code snippets to help with readability, even removing extra articles in code snippets can help it seem less crowded 😄

  version: 1.0.0

>   description: Simple example with a requester that initiates the request-reply pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Requester example initiating the request-reply pattern.
```

channels:
  ping:

>     address: /

Reviewer 2: Personal opinion:

I feel using different addresses for each channel will let people understand the concept better. `/ping` and `/pong` or any similar will, IMHO, let the user don't waste time trying to understand how this will work with both having `/` as address.

I know you  are describing other patterns [later on](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/2071/files#diff-5ceb1af05da46640b00d0804db27ef434197db72733ab27b4c5255b2544cbe72R77), however it might make sense to use an example for this doc that is more focused on EDA rather than HTTP/Websocket, as it feels more aligned with what AsyncAPI target is. 
That means that maybe it makes sense to change the example to a real-world EDA scenario, like a business operation (Buy/Confirm) or similar. Or rather just invert the examples you added and bring here the one with different channel addresses and later on describe a HTTP or Websocket example

Author: Yea that makes sense, let me change the initial example 🙂

Author: What would be the most common request/reply pattern that we can start off with?

Changing the first example to something else is quite a re-structuring of the entire flow and text, so I think making the flow of the text clear first before re-doing it makes sense.

Any suggestion?

Reviewer 2: Take this just as a suggestion, I usually like examples based in common-life things like payments.

This is an example I usually use. Feel free to take it even though I would suggest others to share their opinion. Especially people that use that pattern in their systems like @GreenRover :

```yaml
asyncapi: '3.0.0'
info:
  title: Payment Service
  version: 1.0.0
  description: This service is in charge of processing payments
channels:
  ExecutePayment:
    address: payment/exec
    messages:
      ExecutePayment:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/ExecutePayment'
  PaymentProcessed:
    address: payment/done
    messages:
      PaymentProcessed:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/PaymentProcessed'
operations:
  ExecutePayment:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/ExecutePayment'
    reply:
      channel:
        $ref: '#/channels/PaymentProcessed'
components:
  messages:
    ExecutePayment:
      payload:
        type: object
        properties:
          order:
            type: string
            description: Id of the order
          paymentData:
            type: string
            description: Encrypted payment data
    PaymentProcessed:
      payload:
        type: object
        properties:
          order:
            type: string
            description: Id of the order
          status:
            type: string
            enum: 
              - confirmed
              - errored
```

Reviewer 3: Looks like a good example.
Missing only header. I will provide next week some examples.

Author: I changed the examples around to use the one with two different addresses first and the same channel later down the list.

    messages:
      ping:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/ping'
  pong:
    address: /
    messages:
      pong:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/pong'

operations:
  pingRequest:
    action: send
    channel: 
      $ref: '#/channels/ping'
    reply:
      channel: 
        $ref: '#/channels/pong'
```

# Describing a replier

> To describe a **replier**, we take the same structure as for the requester, with the simple difference, of using the `receive` action instead.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: I believe this comma should be removed
```suggestion
To describe a **replier**, we take the same structure as for the requester, with the simple difference of using the `receive` action instead.
```

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: Ping/pong example with replier
  version: 1.0.0
  description: Simple example with a replier that replies to the request.

channels:

>   // Same as for the requester

Reviewer: Why `//` in this line, but `//.` in the other examples? Now I think there is a mistake 😄

Author: Yep, was a mistake, changed to `//` 😄

operations:
  pongReply:
    action: receive
    channel: 
      $ref: '#/channels/ping'
    reply:
      channel: 
        $ref: '#/channels/pong'
```

> # Sub-patterns in request and reply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Sub-patterns in request/reply
```

For consistency, let's stick to `request/reply`. 😄✌🏽

**Please go through your document again and with this in mind, update all inconsistent mentions of `request and reply`.**

In the simple example above we saw how you could set up a request and reply pattern across two applications, where the request and reply happened over the same channel `/` on an unknown server and protocol, which could have been HTTP, Kafka or WebSocket, in this simple example it does not really matter, cause the only difference would be how the server information is defined.

However, there are sub-patterns to request and reply that AsyncAPI v3 supports, let's take a look at them. 

## Request/reply over different channels

> If you come from a REST or WebSocket environment, this sub-pattern might seem weird, but in the event-driven world of Kafka or NATS this is a common pattern to utilize where you do the request over one channel, and reply on a different one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you come from a REST or WebSocket environment, this sub-pattern might seem unfamiliar, but in the event-driven world of Kafka or NATS this is a common pattern to utilize where you do the request over one channel, and reply on a different one.
```

> In this example, the reply is on a statically defined channel so you at design time know exactly where the reply is returned to.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: 

```suggestion
In this example, the reply is on a statically defined channel, so you, at design time, know exactly where the reply is returned to.
```

The only difference in this AsyncAPI document, in relation to the simple example is that each channel has now been given a different address `/ping` and `/pong` respectively.

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: Ping/pong example for a requester with static reply channel
  version: 1.0.0
  description: Example with a requester that initiates the request/reply pattern on a different channel than the reply is using.

channels:
  ping:
    address: /ping
    messages:
      ping:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/ping'
  pong:
    address: /pong
    messages:
      pong:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/pong'

operations:
  pingRequest:
    action: send
    channel: 
      $ref: '#/channels/ping'
    reply:
      channel: 
        $ref: '#/channels/pong'
```

Defining the **replier** is the same as for the requester, again using the `receive` action instead as the only difference.

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: Ping/pong example for replier with static reply channel
  version: 1.0.0
  description: Example with a replier that returns the response on a different channel than the request happened on.

channels:

>   //.Same as for the requester

Reviewer: Why the `//.` in here and in line 187? I think I'm missing something/there's something I don't know 😂

Author: Should have just been `// xxx`, it is just so I don't have to show the exact same thing twice if I can avoid it 🙂

operations:
  pongReply:
    action: receive
    channel: 
      $ref: '#/channels/ping'
    reply:
      channel: 
        $ref: '#/channels/pong'
```

## Request/reply with dynamic response channel

A second sub-pattern is where we do not know the reply channel at design time, but instead, it's dynamic and determined at runtime. This could for example be using the request message payload or header to dictate the response channel.

> Take notice how we utilize `address: null` to define that we dont know the address and instead 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take notice how we utilize `address: null` to define that we don't know the address:
```

Oops, watch out for missing punctuation. In docs, you need to fix grammar mistakes, which is different than when you submit a blog post :)

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: Ping/pong example for a requester with dynamic reply channel
  version: 1.0.0
  description: Example with a requester that initiates the request/reply pattern where the reply will happen on whatever is defined in the header `replyTo` of the request.

channels:
  ping:
    address: /ping
    messages:
      ping:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/ping'
  pong:

>     address: null

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: I would add a comment here saying this is not needed (explicit null) and only for illustration purpose

Author: Yep, makes sense 👍

    messages:
      pong:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/pong'

operations:
  pingRequest:
    action: send
    channel: 
      $ref: '#/channels/ping'
    reply:
      address:
        description: The reply address is dynamically determined based on the request header `replyTo`
        location: "$message.header#/replyTo"
      channel: 
        $ref: '#/channels/pong'
```

Defining the replier is the same as for the requester, again using the `receive` action instead as the only difference.

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: Ping/pong example for replier with dynamic reply channel
  version: 1.0.0
  description: Example with a replier that returns the response on a channel determined by the header `replyTo` of the request.

channels:
  //.Same as for the requester

operations:
  pongReply:
    action: receive
    channel: 
      $ref: '#/channels/ping'
    reply:
      address:
        description: The reply address is dynamically determined based on the request header `replyTo`
        location: "$message.header#/replyTo"
      channel: 
        $ref: '#/channels/pong'
```

> You can use different types of `location` values here as it's not limited to headers specifically, you can also use payload properties with `$message.payload#/replyTo`.

Reviewer 2: Cana we mention this value is a Runtime Expression? Not sure if are "allowed" to link to the spec... Linking to `latest` maybe?

Author: Yea, lets link it 👍

## Multiple messages over the same channel with request/reply

> In for example WebSocket, often you encounter that a channel will contain multiple messages over the same channel, but when you design the request/reply operations, you want to explicitly state which messages are "active". 

Reviewer: **The sentence you provided contains a grammatical issue due to the use of the phrase "in for." To correct this, rephrase your sentence to avoid using "in for."**

Here's a revised example of your sentence:

> "For example, with WebSockets, you often encounter situations where a channel contains multiple messages..."

In this corrected version, I removed the "in" and placed "for example" at the beginning of your sentence to introduce your example smoothly.

Author: Re-phrased to
```
In WebSocket, you often encounter that a channel will contain multiple messages, which means you will have to make your operations explicitly define which messages are used for each operation.
```

> In the following example it's very close to the first requester example, where the difference is that we merged the two ping and pong channels into a single one (because they use the same address). The request operation then explicitly defined the request message among the available channel messages and the same for the reply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example is very similar to the first requester example, with the difference being that we merged the two ping and pong channels into a single one (because they use the same address). The request operation then explicitly defined the request message among the available channel messages and the same for the reply.
```

Improving for better clarity and coherence. ✌🏽

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:

>   title: Ping/pong example when a channel contains multiple multiples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  title: Ping/pong example when a channel contains multiple messages
```
